---
layout:     post
title:      Accounting for Changes in the Homeownership Rate
subtitle:   Matthew Chambers, Carlos Garriga, Don E. Schlagenhauf;2009;IER
date:       2023-10-08
author:     Almost Water
header-img: img/art-Anaconda-TensorFlow.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - 宏观经济
    - 房地产经济
    - 论文
---


# Abstract: 
*This article accounts for the boom in homeownership from 1994 to 2005 byexamining the roles of demographic changes and mortgage innovations. To mea-sure the impact of these factors, we construct a quantitative general equilibriumoverlapping generation model with housing. In the long-run, mortgage innova-tion accounts for between 56 and 70% of the increase whereas demographicsaccount for a much smaller portion. We test this result by considering changes inmortgages after 1940. We find that the introduction of the conventional fixed ratemortgage accounts for at least 50% of the observed increase in homeownershipduring that period.*

# Highlights
Demographic and Institutional Changes. Pays particular attention to the role of changes in **demographic structure** and **financial innovations** in the mortgage market.

# Objective
- The objective of this article is to account for the observed increase in the home-ownership rate and thereby understand the role played by demographic factorsand mortgage market innovations. To measure the aggregate and distributionalimpact of these two factors, we construct a **general equilibrium overlapping gen-erations model** with housing and mortgage markets. The model generates participation rates,$π_{it}$, that result from the household's optimal behavior

- The model stresses the dual role of housing as a consumption and investment good.The investment in housing differs from real capital in that a **downpayment andmortgage are required, changes in the housing investment position are subject totransaction costs, and idiosyncratic shocks affect sales value.**

# Model
## Households

## Production firms
$Y=F(K,L)$, constant return to scale technology.

## Financial firms
The financial intermediary is a zero-profit firm. This firm receives the deposits of the household, $a'$, and offers mortgages generate revenue each period. In addition, financial intermediaries receive principal payments from those individuals who sell their home or unexpectedly die with an outstanding mortgage position. These payments are used to pay a net interest rate on these deposits, $r$.

| Asset| Liabilities |
|:---:|:---:|
|loans to firms|deposits|
|net mortgage loans|


## Government