---
layout:     post
title:      Huw Pill 评价货币政策
subtitle:   科普
date:       2023-10-13
author:     D2O
catalog: true
tags:
    - 宏观经济
    - 货币政策
---


- The analytical discussion of the literature on **monetary policy and uncertainty** has taken place with a framework that casts monetary policy strategy in the form of a control problem/ Within a system that defines the behaviour of the economy, policymakers seek to minimise the social costs arising from the departure of inflation, employment and economic activity from their efficient levels, using the short-term interest rate(and potentially other monetary policy instruments) as a control variable. A common starting point was the standard new Keynesian macroeconomic model. Building on the work of Michael Woodford in collaboration with  Julio Rotemberg, linear approximations of these models around the inflation target steady state, in conjunction with quadratic approximations of social welfare derived from the household preferences upon which the model was based, defined the system within which model-optimal monetary policy could be determined. For those of us schooled in modern macro using Thomas Sargent’s Macroeconomic Theory textbook, this linear / quadratic (or LQ) framework was associated with one important result: certainty equivalence. In other words, within the LQ set-up defined by Rotemberg and Woodford, the optimal monetary policy rule governing how the policy interest rate should respond to changes in the state of the economy is invariant to distribution of shocks to that economy. This does not mean that uncertainty does not matter. On the contrary, shocks are the drivers of economic fluctuations. The welfare losses associated with inflation volatility stemming from those shocks provides a rationale for the stabilisation of inflation that underlies the adoption of inflation targeting. But the analysis implies that the optimal policy rule – defining how the policy rate should respond to economic developments – does not change if and when the degree of uncertainty in the economy increases. And – as is often the case in the academic literature – a result proving something did not matter proved to be the catalyst for a research agenda seeking to demonstrate that it did.Engineering again provided some of the inspiration for this research programme. But different strands of the engineering literature were taken up, which – when filtered through the macroeconomic lens – offered different implications for monetary policy.One strand of research developed from so-called Brainard uncertainty. If uncertainty entered the system via the parameters of the economy, rather than as shocks to the economy, then the consequences were different.

