---
layout:     post
title:      Golden Eggs and Hyperbolic Discounting
subtitle:   Laibson;QJE; 1997;
date:       2023-10-15
author:     D2O

- Hyperbolic Discount
A relatively high discount rate over short horizons and a relatively low discount rate over long horizons. This 
catalog: true
tags:
    - 房地产经济
    - 论文
    - 宏观经济
---

# Abstract

Hyperbolic discount functions induce dynamically inconsistent preferences, implying a motive for consumers to constrain their own future choices. This paper analyzes the decisions of a hyperbolic consumer who has access to an imperfect  commitment technology: an illiquid asset whose sale must be initiated one period  before the sale proceeds are received. The model predicts that consumption tracks  income, and the model explains why consumers have asset-specific marginal propensities to consume. The model suggests that financial innovation may have caused the ongoing decline in U. S. savings rates, since financial innovation increases liquidity, eliminating commitment opportunities. Finally, the model implies that financial market innovation may reduce welfare by providing "too much" liquidity.

- Hyperbolic Discount
A relatively high discount rate over short horizons and a relatively low discount rate over long horizons. This discount structure sets up a conflict between today's preference, and the preferences that will be held in the future.

# Outcome

- Predicts that consumption will track income
- Explains why consumers have a different propensity to consume out of wealth than they do out of labor income
- Explains why Ricardian equivalence should not hold even in an economy characterized by an infinitely lived representative agent. 
- Suggests that financial innovation may have caused the ongoing decline in saving rats, since financial innovations increases liquidity and eliminates implicit commitment opportunities. 
- Provides a formal framework for considering the proposition that financial market innovation refuces welfare by providing "too much" liquidity.

# Model
 
- a liquid asset $x$ and illiquid asset $z$. Instrument $z$ is illiquid in the sense that a sale of this asset has to be initiated one period before the actual proceeds are received. Asset $z$ and asset $x$ have the same rate of return. The consumer  may borrow against her illiquid assets by giving a creditor a contingent control right over some of those assets. An uncollateralized loan has occurred if an asset reallocation leaves the illuquid account negative $z<0$. Creditors are unwilling to make such loans because a consumer who received such a loan would not have an incentive to repay. Hence, assume $z_t \ge 0$. This is a **implicit assumption of forced saving**